---
title: "Open Hour 2023-NOV-16"
summary: "Open hour notes for July 20, 2023. In this open hour, Alyssa demos the latest updates to the quickstart tutorial and Chunga expresses his gratitude to the community."
date: "2023-11-16"
url: "blog/open-hour-2023-nov-16"
image: images/blog/person-computer-08.jpg
image_alt:
tags:
    - open hour
---

[Open Hour YouTube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9svBjLDUl_-XfmQSCgE_uislHD_rRKfu) | Contact us! <saltproject@vmware.com>

In this open hour, Alyssa demos the latest updates to the quickstart tutorial
and Chunga expresses his gratitude to the community..


## Agenda

- General updates and announcements
- Salt Project THING update
- Quickstart tutorial update
- This Thanksgiving we're thankful for our community!
- Q&A plus discussion


## General updates and announcements

- Open Hours are held every 1st and 3rd Thursday from 10a.m. to 11a.m. Pacific.
- Our next Open Hour will be December 7.
- Join a [Salt Project working group](https://saltproject.io/working-groups/)!


## Salt Project THING update

The Salt Project THING has been temporarily postponed​. This event has NOT been
canceled​! A new date will be announced after the Broadcom acquisition is
complete.


## Quickstart tutorial update

As promised, we're continuing to iterate on the new
[quickstart tutorial](https://docs.saltproject.io/salt/install-guide/en/latest/topics/quickstart.html)
we created recently. We've now added a new exercise to the tutorial that gives
new users a lightweight introduction to writing their first Salt state.​

You can watch the demo on the recording Alyssa did during Open Hour or you could
run through the tutorial yourself. We look forward to your feedback!


## This Thanksgiving we're thankful for our community!

Regardless of whether you are in the US celebrating Thanksgiving next week, we
want to express our gratitude for our wonderful community. Thanks for all your
bug fixes, your pull requests, the issues you've opened, and for attending open
hour!


## Q&A plus discussion

**Q: Thanks for looking at my open PRs! There's a few that have test failures and at least two of those are flaky because of the Windows tests. Could I get some help to make sure we stay on top of those? I'd like them to get into 3007. Do we have a date for 3007 yet?**

- A: We'd like to release an RC soon. We have one last bug that Dwoz is working on for the RC. We'll keep trying!
- Q: One has been open for more than a year. Can we hopefully get it in for the RC?
- We've definitely been keeping up with them and we'll keep trying to get it in.

**Comment: There has been a flurry of activity on Salt extensions with folks porting some of the code out to extensions. If anyone else wants to get involved, let Nick Hughes know and we'll get you set up to contribute.**

- On that note, we merged in a PR that will automatically put a warning on the docstrings for any modules that have been deprecated. It's now automated.

**Q: I was actually curious that maybe we could make that a major topic of conversation for one of the upcoming Open Hours. I've been following the conversation in Slack, but if you're not in that, it's a pretty major development. We should make sure it gets put into Open Hour.**

- A: Send Chunga a Slack to remind him and we'll be happy to add it to the agenda.
- Anything that gets moved out or migrated to an extension will follow the usual deprecation policy of remaining in the Salt core base for at least two major releases.
- Maybe the process of an existing/previous module and how it was/is becoming an extension module?

**Q: Is there a list somewhere for ones being moved to extensions?**

- A: Yes: <https://github.com/orgs/salt-extensions/projects/5>
- If you want to be a maintainer for one of those modules, we'd love to have you volunteer.

**Q: Has there been any progress on the Salt extensions index to make them more discoverable?**

- A: Not currently, no.



## Comments

Feel free to tell us what you think about Open Hour on the Salt Project
Community Slack.
