---
title: "Open Hour 2023-AUG-03"
summary: "Open hour notes for August 3, 2023. In this open hour, Chunga announces the Salt Project THING!  We also discuss the new Linux Foundation report which showcases Salt Project."
date: "2023-08-03"
author: Alyssa Rock
url: "blog/open-hour-2023-august-03"
image: images/blog/person-computer-02.jpg
image_alt:
tags:
    - open hour
---


# Open Hour 2023-AUG-03

[Open Hour YouTube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9svBjLDUl_-XfmQSCgE_uislHD_rRKfu) | Contact us! <saltproject@vmware.com>

In this open hour, Chunga announces the Salt Project "THING"!  We also discuss the new Linux Foundation report which showcases Salt Project. We've launched the new Salt Project Community Calendar designed by Alyssa Rock.


## Agenda

- General updates and announcements
- The Linux Foundation showcases Salt Project
- Salt Project community calendar
- What is the Salt Project "THING"?
- Docs working group update
- Q&A plus discussion


## General updates and announcements

- Open Hours are held every 1st and 3rd Thursday from 10a.m. to 11a.m. Pacific.
- Our next Open Hour will be August 17.
- Join a [Salt Project working group](https://saltproject.io/working-groups/)!


## The Linux Foundation showcases Salt Project

The Linux Foundation recently published a new report about
[Open Source Maintainers](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/research/open-source-maintainers).
The report covers:

- The vast power of Open Source
- Demographics of maintainers & contributors​
- Best practices for Open Source projects​

Many members from Salt Project's core team were interviewed as part of the
research for this report. Huge shout out to Gareth Greenaway, Pedro Algarvio,
Anil Sharma, Megan Wilhite, and the creator of Salt, Tom Hatch!!!​

Head to [saltproject.io](https://saltproject.io/blog/Linux-Foundation-Showcases-Salt-Project/)
to read the full blog and report.


## Salt Project community calendar

As many of you know, we recently migrated the [saltproject.io](saltproject.io)
website off Wordpress and onto Hugo. It took a little while to restore full
functionality, but now we're pleased to announce that the website now has a new
[community calendar](https://saltproject.io/calendar/).

The Community Calendar had to be rebuilt from scratch, which is why it took so
long. The new calendar has some great features like:

- Links and access for all current and future Salt Project events and working
  group meetups​
- It adapts the events in your time zone

The only feature we weren't able to get is that it doesn't allow you to copy or
export the calendar to .ics, Outlook, or Google. We're sorry about that!


# What is the Salt Project "THING"?

We're excited to tell you about the Salt Project THING, a one-day virtual,
online event coming this fall​. This event will be 100% free to attend!

It will feature:

- Breakout sessions​
- Tutorials​
- Networking​ opportunities
- Contests
- AND MORE!​

We hope you'll all attend!


## Docs working group update

One of the Salt Docs working group members is working on a user research
project to improve the docs. We're conducting 45-minute interviews with a
variety of community members to learn more about the journeys they take while
learning and using Salt.​

We would love to talk to more people who are new to Salt or recently learned how
to work with Salt. Let us know if you can recommend anyone, such as a new
co-worker, intern, or co-workers who only interact with Salt occasionally.
Contact Alyssa Rock on the Community Slack or post in `#documentation`.


## Q&A plus discussion

**Q: Have you made any progress on the [Salt pip issue](https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/64662)?**

- A: We're aware of it, but haven't had a chance to look yet.

**Q: Any ETA on next patch release, since it for example fixes issues with $HOME for gitfs with pygit2?**

- A: We're currently targeting mid-August.


## Comments

Feel free to tell us what you think about Open Hour on the Salt Project
Community Slack.
