---
title: "Open Hour 2024-MAR-21"
summary: "Open hour notes for March 21, 2024. In this open hour, the core team announced the migration from Slack to Discord."
date: "2024-03-22"
url: "blog/open-hour-2024-mar-21"
image: images/blog/person-computer-12.png
tags:
    - open hour
---

# Open Hour 2024-MAR-21

[Open Hour YouTube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9svBjLDUl_-XfmQSCgE_uislHD_rRKfu) | Contact us! <saltproject.pdl@broadcom.com>

In this open hour, the core team announced the migration from Slack to Discord.


## Agenda

- General updates and announcements
- Important news about Salt Project Slack
- Here's what you need to know–with Derek Ardolf
- New Salt Project Code of Conduct–with Alyssa Rock
- Q&A plus discussion


## General updates and announcements

- Open Hours are held every 3rd Thursday from 10a.m. to 11a.m. Pacific.
- Our next Open Hour will be April 18.
- Join a [Salt Project working group](https://saltproject.io/working-groups/)!


## Important news about Salt Project Slack

See our recent blog: [Goodbye Slack, Hello Discord!](https://saltproject.io/blog/goodbye-slack-hello-discord/).

Our Slack workspace is changing:

- Broadcom no longer allows Slack.
- This change applies to all subsidiaries, divisions, departments and teams.
- This policy goes into effect immediately as of this Open Hour.
- Slack will remain "on" until the end of May, 2024, but it will be read ONLY.
- Community members will not be able to add anything new to Salt Project Slack.
- Salt Project has migrated all content to a suitable replacement.

Salt Project is moving to Discord:

- Salt Project Discord workspace is LIVE.
- Join right away: [Invite link](https://discord.gg/J7b7EscrAs)
- All Slack content and channels have been migrated to Discord.
- Discord is very similar to Slack, with new channels and features.
- Please spread the word.

THANK YOU for your patience!


## Here's what you need to know–with Derek Ardolf

Derek demoed some great features in the new Discord space, such as the RSS feed
readers that will alert you to new security announcements, blog posts, posts
about Salt on Stack Overflow, and more. See the recording from Open Hour for the
full demo.


## New Salt Project Code of Conduct–with Alyssa Rock

Along with the move to Discord, we have a new
[Code of Conduct](https://saltproject.io/code-of-conduct/)! Unlike the move away
from Slack, the Code of Conduct is not mandated by Broadcom. It's coming from
the core Salt team and leaders. We're introducing the new CoC now because we
want to ensure everyone reads it and follows it when they join the new Discord
community.

Our new Code of Conduct is better than our old one because it builds on best
practices from many other vibrant open source projects and because it comes with
a clear, fair response plan.

Please read it, live by it, and let us know if you want any changes or updates
to it!

[Code of Conduct](https://saltproject.io/code-of-conduct/)


## Q&A plus discussion

**Q: With this [issue](https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/66182), I'm hoping to turn this into a PR. I'm wondering if some core team members could take a look and give me some feedback.**

- A: We had a long technical discussion about the issue. You can check the recording for the discussion.


## Comments

Feel free to tell us what you think about Open Hour on the Salt Project
Community Slack.
