---
title: Salt Security Advisory Release March 28, 2022
date: 2022-03-28T22:25:54-06:00
author: Chunga
image:
image_alt:
---

# Salt Security Advisory Release March 28, 2022

The Salt Project released a security update to Salt to address 4 vulnerabilities
with a severity rating of Medium to High. We strongly recommend prioritizing
this update. This is a security advisory release.

The following CVEs were fixed as part of this release:

## CVE Details

### CVE-2022-22934

- **Description:** Salt Masters do not sign pillar data with the minion’s public
  key.
- **Impact:** Attackers can substitute arbitrary pillar data.
- **Solution:** Salt masters include the minion’s id in pillar data responses
  and then sign the response with the master’s private key. Minions also include
  a nonce in pillar requests so pillar replies cannot be re-played.
- **How to Mitigate:**
  - Upgrade to 3002.8, 3003.4, or 3004.1
  - NOTE: When upgrading your Salt infrastructure, first upgrade your Salt
    master packages before upgrading your Salt minion packages. Upgrading the
    minion packages first could result in loss of functionality.
- **Attribution:** Lenka Mareková <lenka@cloudflare.com>
- **Severity Rating:** 7.5 (CVSS:3.1/AV:A/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H)


### CVE-2022-22935

- **Description:** Minion authentication denial of service.
- **Impact:** A MiTM attacker can force a minion process to stop by
  impersonating a master.
- **Solution:** Minions include a nonce in their authentication requests and
  masters include the nonce in a reply signed with the master’s private key.
- **How to Mitigate:**
  - Upgrade to 3002.8, 3003.4, or 3004.1.
  - Pre-seed the master’s public key on minions.
  - NOTE: When upgrading your Salt infrastructure, first upgrade your Salt
    master packages before upgrading your Salt minion packages. Upgrading the
    minion packages first could result in loss of functionality.
- **Attribution:** Lenka Mareková <lenka@cloudflare.com>
- **Severity Rating:** 6.5 (CVSS:3.1/AV:A/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H)


### CVE-2022-22936

- **Description:** Job publishes and file server replies are susceptible to
  replay attacks.
- **Impact:** An attacker can re-play job publishes causing minions to run old
  jobs. File server replies can also be re-played. A sufficient craft attacker
  could gain root access on minion under certain scenarios.
- **Solution:** Minions include a nonce in their file server requests. Masters
  include the nonce in their replies and sign them with the master’s private key.
- **How to Mitigate:**
  - Upgrade to 3002.8, 3003.4, or 3004.1
  - NOTE: When upgrading your Salt infrastructure, first upgrade your Salt master packages before upgrading your Salt minion packages. Upgrading the minion packages first could result in loss of functionality.
- **Attribution:** Lenka Mareková <lenka@cloudflare.com>
- **Severity Rating:** 7.5 (CVSS:3.1/AV:A/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H)


### CVE-2022-22941

- **Impact:** This requires a syndic master combined with publisher_acl
  configured on the Master-of-Masters, allowing users specified in the
  publisher_acl to bypass permissions, publishing authorized commands to any
  configured minion.
- **Description:** When configured as a Master-of-Masters, with a publisher_acl,
  if a user configured in the publisher_acl targets any minion connected to the
  Syndic, the Salt Master incorrectly interpreted no valid targets as valid,
  allowing configured users to target any of the minions connected to the syndic
  with their configured commands.
- **Solution:** The code has been modified to correctly treat an empty list of
  targets as completely invalid, and the user will correctly be given an error
  message. How to Mitigate: Upgrade the Salt Master-of-Masters to the latest
  version of salt software.
- **How to mitigate:**
  - Upgrade the Salt Master-of-Masters to 3002.8, 3003.4 or 3004.1
  - NOTE: When upgrading your Salt infrastructure, first upgrade your Salt
    master packages before upgrading your Salt minion packages. Upgrading the
    minion packages first could result in loss of functionality.
- **Attribution:** https://github.com/bzukdatto
- **Severity Rating:** 7.5 (CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H)


## Packages

Updated packages for the versions below can be found at
https://repo.saltproject.io for these supported versions of Salt:

- 3004.1
- 3003.4
- 3002.8

Note: Ubuntu 16.04 was not packaged since it is no longer in General Maintenance.

