---
title: "Salt security advisory release - 2024-JAN-31"
date: "2024-01-31"
summary: "The Salt Project released a security update to Salt to address 2 vulnerabilities with a severity rating of High and Medium. We strongly recommend prioritizing this update. This is a security advisory release."
tags:
    - security announcement
    - CVE release

---

# Salt security advisory release - 2024-JAN-31

The Salt Project released a security update to Salt to address 2 vulnerabilities
with severity rating of High and Medium. We recommend prioritizing this update.
This is a security advisory release. This release includes fixing the following
vulnerability:

## CVE Details

### CVE-2024-22231

- **Description:** Syndic cache directory creation is vulnerable to a directory traversal attack.
- **Impact:** An arbitrary directory can be created on a Salt master.
- **Solution:** Validate directory creation path.
- **How to Mitigate:** Upgrade Salt masters to 3005.5 or 3006.6
- **Attribution:** Yudi Zhao (Huawei Nebula Security Lab), Chenwei Jiang (Huawei Nebula Security Lab)
- **Severity Rating:** 5.0 CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:N/I:L/A:N

### CVE-2024-22232

- **Description:** A specially crafted url can be created which leads to a directory traversal in the salt file server.
- **Impact:** An arbitrary file can be read from a Salt master's filesystem.
- **Solution:** Validate file paths after url translation is performed. There has also been extra validation added to file roots file_find and serve_file methods.
- **How to Mitigate:** Upgrade Salt masters to 3005.5 or 3006.6
- **Attribution:** Yudi Zhao (Huawei Nebula Security Lab), Chenwei Jiang (Huawei Nebula Security Lab)
- **Severity Rating:** 7.7 CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:N/A:N


## Packages

Updated packages for the versions below can be found at https://repo.saltproject.io for these supported versions of Salt.

- 3005.5
- 3006.6